[MUSIC PLAYING]
[APPLAUSE]
>> Well, are you all ready to
go on a journey of science,
connection,
consciousness, community?
Look around at each other,
because you are all part
of the Resonance family.
And we've got some of our
researchers in the room.
I'm sure Nassim will tell you
a little bit more about that.
And each of you got some
really, really special brand
new brochures.
One of them tells you all about
the ARK crystal technology.
And I'm sure you
see these up here.
And we've got
Andrea here who will
talk to you
afterwards for anyone
who would like to get one.
Today you'll probably
hear a little bit more.
How many of you are already
familiar with this technology?
Awesome.
How many of you have one?
Yay.
And then how many,
this is your first time
learning about the ARK crystals?
Hands up high.
Let's see.
Excellent.
Well, you'll learn about it a
little bit in your brochure.
Nassim will tell you.
This is the culmination
of his 30 years of work.
And his science, his technology,
It's all wrapped up in this.
And they are so powerful.
You'll hear more, and you'll
get to feel them up here.
I am going to lovingly
turn this over.
Because it is such an
honor to have Nassim here.
I mean, with all
of his research,
and the way he can
take science to a place
that we learn how to
live our lives better.
Let's give our love.
Nassim Haramein.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Thank you.
Thank you.
Hey, you guys.
Hi, everybody from the
internet out there,
Gaia, the non-local
people, the galaxy.
I was hoping to do
this really cozy,
because it's a cozy crowd.
You guys want to come forward?
Or you OK back there?
I mean, let's get together.
We could-- if we wouldn't
be in a hotel room,
we could do a little campfire,
pull out the marshmallows.
No, those are nasty.
Maybe organic ones.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah.
Organic marshmallows
is like a misnomer.
Can you still all see me?
Can the people out there in
the non-local world see me?
Yeah, good.
So, you know, we can talk
about all these things.
I'm happy to talk
I have some stuff here.
It's a presentation that was
done by one of our colleagues
and collaborator and friend,
William Brown, in the house.
[APPLAUSE]
And we have a few others
from our research group
in the house.
We have Olivier over
there, doctor in physics--
[APPLAUSE]
--from France,
excellent physicist.
And we have Johanna
from Germany,
here medical doctor and
surgeon, heart surgeon.
So if your heart is palpitating
during this presentation,
she'll take care of you.
So we are in--
so maybe we'll get some
questions directed at them
as well, because they're
there to make sure I don't put
both feet in the same bucket.
And so I have a lot
of things to say.
But I really would
like this to be more
of what you guys want to know.
Because, like, there's a
panoply of places I could go.
And really, the
title of this talk
is "The human consciousness
and the human antenna."
And it should have
been "Consciousness
in the fractal human antenna,"
because it's a little more
complex than just like, you
know, these kind of ugly things
you see on the houses.
But it has similar principles.
And I want to start,
how many people
here are familiar with my work?
OK, so most of you.
And you've all heard about
the holographic mass solution,
right?
You've all known that I've
published this in 2012.
And then in 2013,
the prediction I
made for the radius
of the proton
was measured in an
accelerator in Switzerland,
and that this
prediction is still
the most accurate theoretical
prediction of the radius
of the proton on the planet.
And who was at my
talk on Saturday?
OK, most of you.
And that talk on Saturday, I
announced that my latest paper
just passed peer review two days
ago-- or three days ago now,
or four days now--
and that-- times go by.
It's all one big day,
according to Janis Joplin.
And so it passed peer review.
And I'm really excited about it.
It's in a good physics journal.
And it extends the solution.
We had extended it
to the electron.
We output the whole
table of elements.
And now we're able
to predict the radius
and the mass, the critical
mass of the universe,
without the need--
oh, am I pushing buttons?
Without the need to incorporate
dark matter and dark energy.
That is, we get rid of that.
Because our equation gives the
correct mass of the universe,
unlike the standard
equation, which
is missing 96% of the
mass of the universe.
So in our case, we're
not having to add
some weird matter that doesn't
seem to be able to be detected.
All right?
So there's nothing dark
about our equation.
It's very nice.
And it outputs something
really powerful.
That is, it's
telling us something
very fundamental and
different about the universe.
Actually, there's something
black about the equation.
I missed it, I'm sorry.
That is, it says the universe
is a black hole, right?
As a fundamental
structure of space,
the universe obeys the exact--
you know, this equation
is very, very clear--
it obeys the exact
solution for a black hole.
And I just want
to say the reason
it passed peer review
is that the mathematics
of the equations in that
paper are accurate and exact.
And that's really something
that can make you think, well,
how can that be?
The universe would not
seem to be a black hole.
Because when you
think of a black hole,
you think of this object
that's so dense, that's
so massive, that not even
light can emerge from it,
because the gravitational
force is so strong that it's
sucking everything in.
So if it's something
that is very dense,
you know, it's not my direct
experience of this world.
It's like, when I look in
the night sky out there,
it seems like it's very
spacious, that it's not
so dense.
But that's because of the
size of the black hole.
So just to give
you an idea, if I
was to calculate the density
of a black hole for the size
of our solar system,
it would be the density
of the air of our atmosphere.
So If I just put air
of our atmosphere
in all of the solar system, it
would have the right density
for your solar system
to be a black hole.
Bigger the size of the black
hole, lower the density
has to be, because more mass
you're able to put in there.
And so, you know, a black hole
the size of our solar system
is about the density of air.
A black hole the size
of the black holes
in the center of galaxies is
about the density of water.
So you can imagine that a black
hole the size of our universe
can have a very low density.
In fact, it does, because
the mass or the critical mass
of our universe inside
the bubble of our universe
is exactly the solution
to a black hole.
So we are a black hole.
And you can imagine--
you know, think
about it this way.
You know that we think that the
universe is expanding, right?
OK.
Why do we think that?
Because stars appear
to be redshifted.
Very specific objects in the
universe that we're looking at
appears to be redshifted.
So "redshift" means
that the Doppler effect
of light-- meaning, as
light moves away from you,
the wavelength gets longer,
so it goes towards red.
As it moves towards
you, the wavelength
gets shorter, because
it gets compressed,
and that's going towards blue.
Just like an ambulance
sounds different
as it's away from you, as it
comes closer the pitch goes up,
so is the same for light.
And so we know that things
are redshifted out there.
So you can think of it
moving away from you.
But it would be just as true if
you're moving away from them.
Huh?
Ah.
So, you know, we could think
of ourselves collapsing
into a singularity right now
with the edge of the universe
moving away from us.
That's a different
picture, isn't it?
And so this is something that's
not been considered so much.
And I'm not saying that's
exactly what's happening.
Whoa.
I'm saying that the--
I'm just going to
put that aside.
I'm just saying that, if you
have an expanding universe--
so the equation says--
let's just recap.
The holographic
mass solution that's
the start of this whole
thing is the result
of describing the structure of
spacetime at the quantum level
in terms of mini little packets,
teeny little packets that
are little quantized
structure of spacetime.
That spacetime is discrete
at the very fine level way
lower than the atom, billions
of times smaller than the atom.
Spacetime is not smooth.
It just appears
smooth at large scale.
But when you get to the bottom
of it, it's actually granular.
And each grain is a
little bit of information.
Just like the water in
your tub appears smooth,
and when you pull
the plug it orbits,
and if you put the rubber
ducky there it starts orbiting.
But if you look really close,
and you see the water curving,
so you might think
water is smooth,
just like Einstein
described spacetime
as being smooth and
curving where there's
gravity making things orbit.
But when you look
really close, you
can see that the
water is actually
made of little
grains we call atoms
that makes up little molecules.
And these molecules are
orbiting in the region
where it's curving.
And it's because
it's spinning there
that the surface is curving.
I wrote equations showing that
the structure of spacetime
is quantized at
the Planck scale,
at the speed of light scale.
And it has little bits of
data, little spherical bits
of information that makes up
the structure of spacetime.
And when the information is
orbiting in coherent matter,
when spacetime as
self-organizing structures,
when it has co-moving
dynamics, it produce curvature.
And that's what we
call gravity and mass.
And I want to make sure
that you guys understand
that mass and gravity in
this view is the same thing.
Einstein showed
that gravity curves,
that gravity is the curvature
of space in the region of mass.
But we know from
special relativity
that mass is equal to energy.
So you could just
say, where there's
energy there's curvature.
You can equate energy to mass
using e equals mc squared.
Right?
I'm here to tell you
these equations that
are very precise are saying,
well, there is no difference.
Whatever you are calling energy
is the curvature of spacetime.
Meaning, it's all the
dynamic of the same thing.
It's just the humans
made categories.
They said mass, and
they said energy,
and then they put equivalence.
But in all cases, they
can't tell you what it is.
And then what we're
discovering from this
is that it's all information
moving in spacetime.
So where you have a vortex in
spacetime, you have matter--
mass, energy, whatever you want
to call it, it's all the same.
And then when you
expand to the universe--
so now imagine.
So this is the equation.
We took the proton.
It gives the right
solution for the proton.
It says that the information
inside the proton,
in terms of these little
bits of information,
relative to the
information on the surface,
in terms of these little
Planck bits of information,
is the mass of the
proton and its radius.
When you calculate that, it
gives the exact correct answer.
That is, the information
that's able to come out
of the proton, come out
of the event horizon,
is equal to what we
call mass or energy.
Basically, spacetime orbits,
billions of these little bits
of information.
And the ones that are
able to escape the spin,
that radiate out, is what
we call mass or energy.
Or we could call it the
electromagnetic field.
But that's another story.
But, again, it's just
different equations
describing different parts
of the same elephant.
But so it's spinning,
and it's radiating.
But then, if you take
that little spin,
and you grew it to the
size of the universe,
what would happen?
It's what I did in
this latest paper.
If I take the little
proton, and then I
grow it to the size
of the universe,
what happens to this information
exchange, this radiation?
What mass would I end up with?
Because the surface
size is changing.
So it can radiate more.
And so it has a larger mass.
There's more stuff that can
be measured out of this thing.
And so when I grew it to
the size of the universe,
I got the exact mass
of the universe.
It worked.
Now, the probability of
that working from the scale
of a teeny, weeny, little,
beady, little thing,
proton thing, all the way
to the size of a universe,
and not [MUTED]-ing-ing up
anywhere on the way up,
and like the equation just
going completely sideways on me,
and ending up with a mass
completely wrong is pretty
large.
It's like, you know, if
you're leaving Europe,
and you're Columbus, and
you're going to India,
and you mess up by a few degrees
on your vectors, guess what?
You arrive in North America.
You mess it up pretty bad.
And then when you arrive,
and you meet the local guys,
you call them Indians.
I think that's pretty funny,
that history has recorded this.
To me, it's a little
bit embarrassing.
I think it's very
funny, as well,
that they all claim
that Columbus discovered
North America, which is--
clearly when he arrived,
there was already people here.
I don't know which part
of that they missed.
But, you know, it's
this kind of thing
that when you
discover something,
if somebody discovered
it before you,
it's not quite a novelty, right?
Anyway.
If you mess up by a few
degrees on a long distance,
it gets ugly really fast, right?
So imagine if you
mess up a few degrees
on a scale from the
proton to the universe.
You're going to miss
the universe altogether.
Like, you're just
like, oh, my god.
You'll probably end up
in the fifth dimension
somewhere where
that would happen,
where there's a lot
of purple clothes.
I'm just kidding.
It's really remarkable
that an equation would be
so accurate across such scales.
Because, as well, I'm measuring
with little Planck oscillators.
And so they little
Planck oscillators
are really small units.
Now, this is important as well
to understand-- the measurement
of these little bits of
information I'm using
is the only natural units.
The universe has--
and the reason
I'm talking about
dimensions this way
is because dimensions
for physicists
is not like things that
are like another world.
Dimensions for
physicists are just
different planes in
a complex structure,
like in a complex plane, or
different vectors in space.
So there's confusion between
what spiritual people talk
about dimensions and vectors.
But basically, so you could
think of different scales
as different dimensions.
But so imagine the dimensions--
because literally,
"dimensions"--
imagine the dimensions
of a Planck,
it's hard to define
how small it is.
But let me just
start by saying, it's
so small that it, you know, is
something that's fundamental.
Meaning, current dimensions--
and that could probably be
debated by some researchers--
but generally, it's-- and there
might be some validity that
there's some connections to the
current dimensioning systems we
use.
But generally, it's arbitrary.
And there might be connection
to the Planck scale.
And I'm discovering some lately,
like the Planck length in miles
is very, very good
approximation of 1.
You know, I find
that interesting.
But if you think of a unit
that is a natural unit--
that is, it's not
arbitrary, it's not
like the foot of a
king, it's not the elbow
to the hand of some
pharaoh, it's not like--
it's a thing that is like
fundamental to nature,
like the units of measurement
that nature would use.
Then the only thing you
have for natural units
is the Planck scale.
Because it comes from
fundamental constants.
These are energy constant.
Like the Planck
constant is the energy
that is required for electrons
to go from one orbital
to the other.
It's a fundamental energy
packet that we know exists
and that we can measure.
So it's like a
fundamental natural unit.
Now, these units
are really teeny.
So to give you an
idea of scale--
and you know this approximately.
I just want to [? retur ?] this.
If you're made out of a
hundred trillion cells--
so already, cells are small.
You have to have a
microscope to see them.
Each cell is made of a
hundred trillion atoms.
You're already-- luck
with your microscope.
You won't see the atoms,
they're too small.
Now you need an
electron microscope.
And even then, you're
not going to see much,
because the electron
relative to the atom
is like along the same scale.
So it's really
hard to see atoms.
We're just starting,
in the last few years,
to be able to image atoms.
Because they're really tiny--
a hundred trillion
atoms per cell.
That's a lot.
Now, if you took
one of these atoms,
you made it the
dome of the Vatican,
then the nuclei, the
proton, would be the head
of a pin inside the dome.
So the proton is really,
really, really, really tiny.
Well, if I took one
of those little Planck
oscillators, these little Planck
link, these little packets
of energy, and I grew it to
the size of a grain of sand,
then the proton would have
the diameter from here
to Alpha Centauri,
or approximately--
no, yes, approximately yeah,
40 trillion kilometers,
approximately.
Right?
It's a big proton.
And the Planck is still a
grain of sand relative to that.
So imagine how
many grains of sand
you can put in a bubble that
has 40 trillion kilometers.
That is a large amount of sand.
So the equation counts the
amount of grains of sand
inside that bubble,
and then divides
the amount of grains of
sand inside the bubble
to the amount of grains of sand
on the surface of the bubble.
And when it does that,
it gets the right mass
of that bubble, the right
energy of that bubble,
with, like,
eight-digit accuracy.
So, like, you know--
the fact that this comes
out right is insane.
It's insane.
Because, I mean,
you could easily
be missing a bunch of sand,
and you'd be [MUTED] luck.
You'd be off.
Right?
Go ahead.
>> So the [INAUDIBLE] you do
already know that so-called
surface, how much--
>> Right.
>> What is that?
>> Well, you know, you input
the radius of the proton,
and you output the mass.
Or you input the mass,
and you output the radius.
Just like a normal equation,
like the Schwarzschild radius
or whatever, right?
But you can come at it from
different size as well.
You can define the scales
relative to each other
and figure out the scales.
So back to the analogy
of Christopher Columbus
on his boat putting
a few degrees off,
if you're a few
grains of sand off
relative to the amount
of sand in there,
it's not going to be pretty
when you grow that puppy
to the size of the universe.
You're using such
small units, right?
So it would come out
wrong, really bad.
But it doesn't.
But imagine the sand in there
in the proton, in a bubble
40 trillion kilometers.
And then grow that bubble
to the size of the universe.
And imagine the sand as it
grows, like, the circulation
of the sand in there.
Can you guys visualize that?
The sand would have
disturbance, right?
There would be density gradient.
There would be spinning
dynamics as the bubble grew.
And it grows fast.
So it's very dynamic.
And we're going to talk
about why it's going fast.
But the turbulence, think
of it as a fluid flow.
Because this Planck
field is like a fluid.
It's like a superfluid.
In technical term, it would
be called a Planck plasma.
So the grains of
sand is an analogy.
It's more like a
fluid, or a gas,
or a very highly
energized plasma.
So you can imagine the
fluid dynamics of that sand
as it's going along.
So as the universe expands, the
dynamics inside the universe
is very specific
toroidal dynamics,
in which if you were looking
at the redshift along any point
in which you're in
the universe, things
would look like they're
moving away from you.
Because it's not as simple as
the mainstream interpretation
was of just a bubble growing.
It's a little more
complex than that.
The universe just happens
to be a little more complex
than a soap bubble growing.
And so you could imagine that
even if the bubble had stopped
growing, you would
still see redshift,
because the stuff in
it is still moving.
And you might be in the
part of the torus that's
going back down, and everything
else is moving away from you.
And so it's redshifted.
Does that make sense?
You need to have as it grows--
especially if it's
spinning, because remember,
the whole thing is spinning.
That's how it got coherent
in the first place.
So it's spinning.
As it grows-- it's
still spinning--
it would have Coriolis effect.
So you'd have a boundary
condition at the equator.
And it would spin in one
direction at the top,
and in another
direction at the bottom.
So you'd have matter
and antimatter.
You'd have matter that spins
in one direction and matter
that spins in another.
You know, I'm telling
you all this stuff,
because I'm trying to develop
a picture in your mind.
There is a problem in
physics that there's
more matter than antimatter
that we're able to detect.
Well, that might be because when
we're in the part of the torus
where it's spinning
in one direction,
so we are seeing a lot of the
matter going in one direction,
but we're close
enough to the equator
that there is spray
from the lower torus,
and we're seeing some of the
matter going in the other.
See?
Now you've got a geometric idea.
There's a lot of evidence
of the universe spinning.
It's generally ignored, because
the standard model insists
that the universe is static.
How could the universe be
non-rotating structure when
everything in it is spinning?
It's remarkable.
Godel didn't think so, and
solved Einstein's field
equation with rotation.
But he was ignored.
He was one of the best
mathematicians ever.
Sadly, he died fairly
early, because I
think he committed suicide.
Some of the greatest
mathematicians didn't make it.
You know, Cantor was another
one that was remarkable.
Cantor spent basically
most of his life trying
to solve 1 plus 1 equals 2,
which has a fractional problem.
Because when you say
1, what do you mean?
There is incredible
work that was
done by these
mathematicians that
were working on infinities.
But basically,
what I'm saying to
you is that we're living in
this dynamic toroidal structure
of spacetime that's
circulating Planck
information across scale.
This sand information that's
circulating went from a proton
to a universe across all scale.
And imagine the sand
making galaxies.
They would-- go ahead.
>> That information
you're talking about,
is that what consciousness is?
Because you haven't said
the word "consciousness."
>> I know.
I'm getting there.
[LAUGHS] I'm sorry.
Am I hurting your head?
>> Of course, what you're
talking about is such a small
scale that it's hard for human
mind to actually visualize it.
I see a torus in
front of me, it's
beginning to make a little bit--
>> More sense?
>> Yes.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Right, right, right, right.
Well, it's small scale and big
scale, because it's a universe.
So it happens at both scales.
But I'm getting there.
I was just about
to say the C word.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Oh, god.
That's what I want to hear --
>> Yeah, I was avoiding it.
You know, when I
started presenting
in physics conference,
it literally
was evil to say the C word.
If you said the C word, if you
said the word "consciousness"
in physics conference--
and I did-- you would
get asked to vacate.
And I was actually told by
a fairly famous physicist
that their equations are
much better than mine,
because they didn't
require consciousness.
[LAUGHTER]
My answer was, do you realize
you just insulted yourself?
[LAUGHTER]
You know, clearly he's
somebody the conscious wrote
the equation.
So sorry, it did
require consciousness.
But basically-- so if
you have this circulation
of information bits in
these toroidal dynamics,
now you can say,
OK, now let me look
at more details between the
proton and the universe.
But before I get there, I just
want to say, the universe--
like, why did the
proton go nuts and grow
to the size of the universe?
Like what?
It's like popcorn?
What the heck, you know.
Protons are the most stable
objects in our universe.
We've never seen a
proton do anything.
Like, they are completely
self-sustaining.
Like, 13.7 billion
years later, no decay
has been found in
any protons anywhere
we look in the universe we
would detect proton decay.
And we can't see it.
And so proton are very stable.
Why?
Well, because when you
do this calculation,
you find that the
amount of grain
of sand inside the proton,
the amount of energy
from the Planck field
inside the proton,
is equivalent to the amount
of energy in the universe.
That's why the equation works.
When you grow it
to the universe,
you get the right mass.
So you have exact equilibrium
at the boundary of the proton.
But now imagine one of those
protons escaping our universe.
Imagine one of those little
things all of a sudden crossing
the event horizon
of our universe
and ending up on the other side.
It would end up in a
region in a universe that
has a much lower density.
And it would just
go [BOOM] expand
like crazy very, very, very
quickly, because there's
a lot of energy in there.
All the energy of
our universe would
be in there pushing
on that thing,
and it would expand super fast.
Now, you can start
looking at the scales
of the different dynamics
of the toroidal field.
So you'd find like large
toruses, like galaxy forming,
and quasars and stuff.
Go ahead.
>> I'm just wondering.
William Tifft discovered the
quantization of the redshift.
Does that relate to the
polarizing structures,
some sort of intelligent
information that--
>> You mean the polarization
of the light, the redshift?
>> Yeah, it's the energy
state [INAUDIBLE] continuous.
>> Right.
That's right.
Yeah, and it might be a
good equation to write.
I have not looked
at it in details.
But if you can imagine you
have like a large torus,
like the whole
universe in the sand,
but then you have smaller
toruses, like quasars,
and galaxies, and all
this stuff is forming,
and then smaller ones
forming like planets,
like the magnetic field of our
planet being a toroidal field,
and you get smaller and
smaller dynamics of the field
information, but one
thing that you would see
is that on the surface
of these boundaries,
you would see the exchange
of the information that's
happening.
And where there is
exchange of information,
there would be
structure that would--
the little torus protons
would make structure,
like hairs on the surface
of the event horizon,
like strings would come out,
self-organized-- you guys
are following me?
Remember, the equation is
the exchange of information
from the inside to the outside.
So when we look closer,
and closer, and closer
to the surface, we should
start seeing structure.
And then the structure would
be very much along the vector
forces from the center of
the structure to the outside,
like little light rays
coming off the thing.
Like the light rays of
the sun, like, literally.
So that, you can think of
the thermodynamic exchange
of the sun with
the space around it
as this information transfer.
Now I'm going to give you
an analogy to your body.
Your body is a
carnal engine running
at about 100 Fahrenheit--
96, whatever Fahrenheit--
continuously for 100 years,
if you do good and don't
eat too much McDonald's.
And so that's a lot of energy.
That's a lot of energy.
So think of it as
like the light rays.
So think of the light rays
of the sun radiating off
the surface.
And then think of it
as you radiating off
the surface of the planet,
like a little light ray.
A little exchange of
information on the surface
of the planet, a little dynamic,
a little electromagnetic,
or a little
thermodynamic exchange
that's going on the
surface of the planet.
I'm getting to the C word.
You're with me?
OK.
Go ahead.
>> From what I know, which
is limitlessly small,
it doesn't seem like there
is any room for error.
Or is that a crazy
word to use, "error"?
>> Right.
You mean--
>> It's all kind of--
it's all predetermined.
>> Ah, I see.
>> The fluctuation, the
variations, the vibrations,
whatever you want to call them,
is it all something we foresee,
and we can hypothesize where
it's going and where it will be
in x amount of time
units, whatever?
>> Right.
the whatever part
is the complex part.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah.
Right.
That would assume
that we have all
of the variables in all
of the scales worked out
in our equation.
Than we could-- yeah.
And knowing exactly the
position and the direction
of an electron.
But there's uncertainty, because
we don't have all the data.
You see what I'm saying?
But I see.
But your question
is deeper than that.
Your question is,
it deterministic or
non-deterministic?
Is that your question?
>> we as human beings are a
total anomaly in this whole
scenario.
>> No.
Actually, us as human
beings are the norm
in that whole scenario.
Meaning, life must be
emerging everywhere
on most surfaces, like,
non-stop, bubbling out.
And never mind in our universe.
You know, our universe
must be bubbling out,
like foaming new universes as
protons escape our universe
and make new ones out there
are all entangled with ours.
And holy shit.
I mean, seriously.
The last count on the probable
amount of planets in our galaxy
alone that are in the
golden arc region,
in the region where there
would be life on them--
they're not too
hot, not too cold--
is 40 billions.
And this is before we
realized that there
is the double of
the stars we thought
there was in our galaxy.
So when that number
doubled, then it
would be 80 billions planet
which could have life on it
in our galaxy.
In one galaxy-- there's billions
and trillions of galaxies.
So--
>> All of us in my--
I might have told you, I did
some work with John Hageman.
>> Oh, yes.
Yes.
>> So all of this--
>> When you were at--
>> [INAUDIBLE] college.
>> Yeah.
Where was he?
>> He was at Harvard--
>> At Harvard.
And you were?
>> I was a moron.
[LAUGHTER]
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Oh, yes.
>> So what [INAUDIBLE] it's
all in our own consciousness,
all this.
And it's--
>> Yeah, that's the thing.
That's a really good thought.
But if you don't say
what consciousness is,
it just didn't tell me
anything about anything, right?
And people say
that all the time.
And it's like, yeah, I agree.
But if you won't tell me
what consciousness is,
it's like saying it's all God.
It's about as good
as religion, right?
So it doesn't really do us
any good if we don't know--
I mean, it's good to
say it's all God, too.
But if you don't
tell me what God is,
then I still don't know
what the heck it is.
So I've got to
figure it-- you know,
to me it's important
to figure it out.
So it's a new thing to say
it's all consciousness,
and it's great.
But it's not really telling
us anything about anything
to say that.
It would be like
saying it's all mass.
We don't know what mass is.
So that doesn't
tell us anything.
So what I'm saying is,
we have to define that.
What the heck is that?
So I was at the
little light ray.
Is it deterministic
or non-deterministic?
I'm going to tell
you-- usually when
you have a choice like that,
it's because it's both.
And so it's not that--
it's deterministic in every
Planck second of the universe.
But the synergy of all
Planck seconds advance
in all universes at all
time produces an event
that is non-deterministic
in any point
in the deterministic world.
Do you see?
So that's why there
is uncertainty.
That's why you know you
can get superposition.
That's why quantum theory
can run out of that.
Does that make sense to you?
>> Partially.
But it's ongoing.
>> It's ongoing, yes.
>> [INAUDIBLE] of consciousness,
conscious of x, y, z,
conscious of whatever it is
in the universe other than
yourself.
>> Right.
But it turns out that
conscious of everything
else in the universe
seems to be yourself.
But that can hurt the
brain a little bit.
But it's only momentarily.
And then it feels better.
Yeah.
But let's keep going.
So when you start to
continue to visualize,
to see that this light ray--
now, did you see
on the sun there's
some really good telemetry
from Japanese probes there
that are showing the rays
or its solar prominence.
They're magnetic flux that
are spinning out of the sun.
And just to give you
an idea of scale,
when you see this magnetic
flux coming out of the sun,
you go, wow, that's so cool.
But you don't realize the
Earth is like a grain of sand
beside one of those things.
And so they're big.
And then when this magnetic
flux come out that you see
on this telemetry, where the
Earth would be like a little--
more like a pea,
like a little thing--
you see them like
[WHOOSH] go back in.
Usually, especially if there
is sunspots in that region,
you see them get sucked back in.
So you can imagine that you
have like a flux of information
that's going in these
toroidal dynamics.
And that's what you see when you
look at the plasma in the sun.
You see these toroidal dynamics.
They're going from the
equator to the poles and back
to the equator,
and the dynamics--
and you see that in galaxies.
You see stars going from
the center of the galaxy
to the edge, and the stars go
up in the halo of the galaxy
and back down.
And they go and
they do this thing.
So now imagine you,
the little light ray,
the little
thermodynamic structure,
the little oscillating
biocrystal oscillator
on the surface of your
surface, which is lower energy
level than the sun--
there's less
information transfer,
so it's thermodynamically
a little cooler, luckily--
although, if we were made to
run at a temperature of the sun,
we might be little beings with
the temperature of the sun.
It would be cool.
But it'd be hot.
But it'd be cool, right?
But in any case.
Language can get complex.
But you can imagine that
this information transfer
is occurring inside of you.
Like, you're exchanging
with the field.
You're exchanging with
the field outside of you.
But the field is compressed
inside of you as well.
Because, remember,
each of the proton
has all of the
energy information
of all of the universe.
So it's exchanging.
Whether you know it or
not, it's exchanging.
The volumes of every proton
in your body is exchanging.
So if it's exchanging,
it's got to go somewhere.
Otherwise, you'd explode,
which wouldn't be good.
You would be having a bad day.
If all of a sudden, you
were not exchanging at all
with the rest the
universe, and your proton
continued to exchange, there
would be some blockage.
That would be
really, really bad.
And there would be like
a thermonuclear explosion
from which you
would be the center.
And it would make
a really bad mess.
So there's this
continuous exchange.
Now, this rate of
exchange is high.
Because it's a hundred trillion
cells by a hundred trillion
protons.
So at the scale
of the cells, it's
a thousand billion billion
chemical changes every second.
That is the exchange rate.
So here I'm doing something
very, very, very--
how would you say, heretic.
I'm actually reversing
the concepts of biology.
I am saying, chemical
activity in the body
is not the source
of organization.
It's the result of information
transfer from the atomic scale.
It's not because--
because guess what?
Currently-- and William,
am I correct about this--
the standard model
in biology, they
say that it's happening
because shit is bumping
against each other, right?
>> Well, there is some began
see the error of that way
of thinking.
But it's still generally
taught that things are bumping
into each other randomly.
That's the overall model.
>> Right.
So things are bumping
into each other randomly,
and they just happen to randomly
doing exactly the right thing
exactly at the right time a
thousand billion billion times
every second.
And if they just
happen to bump a little
wrong for a few
seconds, you'd, again,
be having a really bad day.
Right?
>> I was saying the [INAUDIBLE]
for the room for error is just
where of some kind of
explosion or some magnificent
>> Yeah, exactly.
There is no room for error.
>> Think about synthesizing DNA.
The polymerase
will make a new DNA
strand it will lay
down a thousand
nucleotides [INAUDIBLE].
So it's getting
those nucleotides
from the surrounding A, C,
G, T. There's four of them.
It has to get the
exact right nucleotide
to match up with those base
pairs, cognitive base pairs.
And the idea is that
those are randomly
bumping into the polymerase, and
it's getting just the right one
at just the right time to be
able to synthesize a thousand
nucleotides in one second.
It just-- it doesn't
add up at all.
It's impossible.
>> Right.
I guess for the people out
there in the non-local universe,
it would be best if you had
a mic when you're talking.
But you think you guys
picked that up over there?
OK.
Right.
I'll try to do that
better next time.
So the idea that all
this is happening
by stuff bumping into
each other randomly,
let's just say the likelihood is
really, really, really, really,
really, really, really low.
Because it's not about that
the universe would randomly
make one cell--
which is already
an amazing thing,
because a cell is
super complex--
and the fact that in 13.7
billion years in space
just happened to bump into
each other just right,
so a hundred trillion
atoms just made one cell,
is pretty damn low.
That already is pretty damn low.
And that cell would be made,
and like, oh [MUTED],, you know,
a rock fell on it.
And like, oh, no, another
13 billion years, right?
And so this idea that
this is all happening--
so now if it's not random--
the problem in science is
that science was developed
to separate from religion.
So it was critical
for science to be
able to come up with a different
model than "God is doing it."
And the only other thing
they could come up with
is it's random, it
just happened to bump
into each other just right.
And they don't
want to go back to
"it's not random,"
because that wouldn't mean
they're going back to religion.
So it's like [GASPS] no way.
Right?
It's random, no matter what.
I know the equations
don't add up.
But don't worry about that.
Go ahead.
>> In the fiction of isolated
system helps solve that
cognitive dissonance.
>> That's right.
The fiction of isolated
systems, exactly.
It helps us very much in
staying in the illusion.
Right, very much.
Both in physics and biology.
But it's certainly--
I don't know.
Do you guys think we're
going in the right direction?
I'm hoping this is
interesting to you.
So I'm just going through more
of the details of the thoughts.
These are really good thoughts.
I hope you can
retain some of them.
Because they say something very
fundamental about who you are
and how you're interacting
with the world.
And I know I'm throwing
a lot of stuff at you.
So it's not necessarily
obvious to retain them.
But I know that they go in there
in your information exchange
thing, and they're going to go
through the cycles of exchange
and come back.
So don't panic.
But if you think of this dynamic
now from the proton exchanging
information at the
molecular level,
the molecules come
together and link together,
because they're
exchanging information.
The bond angle, the
Van der Waals force,
is actually the
exchange of information.
And then it's exchanged
together to produce cells.
And then the cells
exchange together,
all using this quantum
oscillator of the field.
This is why your toe is not
confused with your nose.
And you don't start growing
nose cells on your toe.
Because if you did, it
would be uncomfortable.
Right?
Go ahead.
>> It's very critical.
Can you just say this again?
The quantum
oscillators [INAUDIBLE]
>> Right.
So imagine the quantum field,
these Planck oscillators,
they're making up your protons.
And you're protons
are exchanging.
And the electron is the
result of the exchange.
And now you have information.
And then information exchange
happened between the atoms,
because they start to link
up in the molecular scale.
>> So you start to
get the biochemistry.
>> Yeah.
You start to get biochemistry.
So now what I'm saying is the
biochemistry in your bodies
inform from the field.
That's why.
It's not just bumping
into each other randomly.
It's coordinated by the field.
The field knows
where everything is.
So it knows what to
bump into each other
to get the right chemical.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Right.
Well, that would mean that
chemistry in your body
is driven by the
information transfer
at the field level
of the Planck scale
which happens to be
your consciousness.
>> Ah.
>> Right?
[LAUGHS]
[APPLAUSE]
You like that?
>> Wait, wait, wait, Nassim.
>> Yes.
>> There seems to be an
intent behind all of this.
>> And intent, yes.
>> An intent.
>> Yes, I would agree.
Yeah.
>> There must be an
intent behind this.
>> Yeah.
Like a goal, like a direction.
Yeah.
OK, we'll get to that.
>> There's smoothing over.
It's a very important
distinction.
My consciousness
doesn't know anything
about how to put all
the right [INAUDIBLE]..
My consciousness is
this very small thing.
When you're talking
about the subconscious
and the superconscious
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Right.
Right.
Wait, wait, wait.
Because we have this linguistic
issue with consciousness,
right?
Because we call the
subconscious that
takes care of all this shit
"unconscious," "subconscious."
And then we call the part
that's going around going,
"What the fuck is this?
How did I get here?
What is this world?
This is not my beautiful wife.
This isn't on my
beautiful house."
(SINGING) As the wheels
go on, na, na, na, na, na.
Right?
And so this is a
little flipped around.
That part should be
called the unconscious.
And the part that's
running the show
should be called the
conscious, the conscious part.
So then you have the information
flowing from the Planck field
to the atomic level to
this molecular level.
The chemistry produce the
biological relationship.
And the information
is exchanged.
And if the information
gets impeded there,
then the biology might
start doing goofy stuff.
But hopefully, it
stays coherent.
And in there, in the
scale relationship
between the biology, between
the scale of the molecules
and the scale of the
cell, there is one really,
really important step.
And that is the
molecule of water.
Right?
Because that is the
fundamental transducer,
the fundamental
crystal transducer,
that allows the
information to go through.
This is why all of life
emerged from water.
It doesn't come
out of other stuff.
It comes out of water.
Like, you put the little
minerals in water,
and eventually you get life.
And so you have
information-- so the water
molecule is super important.
Water is not just
a neutral medium
that DNA just happened
to hang out in.
If you take the water
out, DNA falls apart.
It stops working.
That's correct?
Yeah.
And then lately, we found--
do we have another
mic in the room?
Oh, that would be great.
Thank you.
Maybe we can give it
to William for now.
Could have gone to Johanna.
But we'll get to it.
We all have to learn German.
No, English is good.
Go ahead.
So what happens, lately
when we've looked that water
in the vicinity of DNA--
I hope you know
where I'm leading.
Yes?
>> Well, so what has been found
is that you can actually read
the nucleotide sequence of DNA
from the structure of water
around it.
So they actually say that
DNA has a chiral water
superstructure that's
along the entire periphery.
And so the water is
functioning as the intermediary
between the enzymes
that read and process
the information in the DNA.
And the DNA that is the
reservoir of that information.
Without water, there is no
information transmission.
And if you can't get the
hereditary information of life
expressed, you don't have life.
So just immediately
right there, you
see that the critical
component in this
is the information
transmission being
mediated by the water chiral
superstructure around the DNA.
But it's not just the DNA.
Water does this around
almost every biomolecule.
And so there's also
long range communication
between biomolecules
via the water.
>> Non-linear relationships.
They're finding non-linear
relationships in the brain
just lately a few weeks ago.
But as well, we're
seeing that the water
is modulating the DNA.
>> Yeah.
So they've done femtosecond
ultrafast laser spectroscopy
of DNA interacting with
the various enzymes that
bring out the information in
the DNA, like the polymerases.
These are very
important ones for that.
And so what they found is the
way that the polymerase is
actually able to access the
information in the DNA molecule
is via the water intermediary.
Because it's almost like the
polymerase, or the enzyme
that's going to read the
information in the DNA
and express it, doesn't
even necessarily
need to directly be in
contact with the DNA strand.
Because there's always
going to be a layer
of structured water between it.
>> And that key word
there is structured water.
That is, if the water
loses its structure,
then the transfer
of information,
the capacity of the system to
oscillate, breaks down, right?
>> Absolutely.
>> Right.
So structured water is
really, really important
for where we're getting to--
how much time do I have?
I'm running out of time already.
Is that crazy or what?
How long have I been going?
I've got another hour?
OK.
I'm OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> An hour and 10.
An hour and 10 minutes.
>> I'm sorry?
>> Hour and 10 minutes.
>> OK.
So yeah.
So do you want to define a
little bit structured water?
But I don't want to go in
too much detail right now.
I'll get back to it.
>> Yeah.
Well, and just to
follow up, the studies,
the research that has been
done is showing the importance
of water in not only
the functionality of DNA
but also its
structural integrity,
so how it's held together.
And this has all kinds of
important factors in how
the information is expressed.
In terms of
structured water, it's
pretty well-defined,
pretty well-known,
how water will form a
very specific geometry
at interfacial surfaces.
And the living cell is full
of interfacial surfaces--
the plasma membrane, the
long polymer-type molecules,
the microtubules, mitochondria.
There's tons of these
interfacial surfaces
where you have molecules that
like to interact with DNA--
I'm sorry, with water.
And the water likes to
interact with these molecules.
And so they form a
unique organization
which is a structural geometry.
And so although
this is well-known,
it was thought it's
at the interface,
and it's just a
few water molecules
that get ordered by
the biomolecules.
But then you have work
by like Gerald Pollack--
university professor up at
the University of Washington.
We actually presented at
his conference, the water
conference.
We presented some
of the research
that we're doing on water.
But he's shown that, in fact,
this structured or organized
water extends for hundreds and
hundreds of water molecules
above the interfacial surface.
So this is a long range
ordering of the water molecule.
And--
>> Thousands.
>> Well, because, I mean, in
some cases you can see it.
So it's in the millimeter
range, which, that's
millions of water molecules.
And so the structured
water is a liquid crystal.
And the idea is just
a solid is something
that has locked into a very
specific geometric pattern,
and it doesn't budge, unless
you melt it and becomes a fluid.
And then the organization
of the molecules
are a little bit more
erratic, random, seemingly.
So the water is becoming more
like a solid in structured
water.
So because of that,
the structured water
around the interfacial
membranes of the living cells
can exclude a good
number of molecules
from coming in or leaving.
So it can regulate,
again, the information
transmission of what molecules
are coming in and coming out.
So actually--
>> Just like I was telling
you, on the horizon,
information exchange occurs
at the biological level.
It's the same.
Right?
Go ahead.
>> It's like an almost perfect
analogy with the event horizon
exchange.
>> Can I ask a few questions?
So you're saying there's a
chiral water superstructure.
So is that normal
water molecule sitting
around the DNA which
is part of shaping it
into a sacred geometry,
and then injecting that?
Is that what the chiral
water superstructure is?
Or is it free in the structure?
Is it reading the structure
of the DNA [INAUDIBLE]
>> Well, that's a good question.
I mean, because the way that
the researchers interpret
it is what's occurring is in
the intercellular fluid medium,
the water is more random.
It's bulk water.
It doesn't have any
structure or organization.
Which is probably false.
But then along the
DNA molecule, it
forms very specific
structural organization,
a very specific pattern.
And their perspective
would be that that
is being patterned via
the interaction of the DNA
on the water molecule.
Because the phosphate
backbone, the DNA,
is just extremely
electronegative.
So it's got all these
charges along the backbone,
and water loves that.
So they are very
hydrophilic, in essence.
But then the question
becomes, well,
maybe this structured water
is what is ordering the DNA.
And there some
research to show there.
>> Clearly that's the case.
Because if you remove the water,
the DNA loses its structure.
>> OK.
So we have all this
exchange of information.
>> Yes.
You're trying-- yes.
OK.
Thanks, William.
And you get the sense
that that's happening
when you find a guy like this.
Like, this guy is a French guy.
[LAUGHTER]
Sorry, Olivier.
i had to go there.
He was in a car accident
a few years ago.
And this is not such
an unusual incidence.
And he got an MRI and
X-ray of the skull,
because he had
injuries on his head,
just to make sure he was OK.
And, you know, you
can imagine the guy.
He's in bed, he's having a bad
day, he was in an accident,
and all this.
And then the doctor goes, I
have good news and bad news.
You're good, no problem.
But you have no brain.
And the guy is
like, oh, thank god.
I could have bruised it.
Right?
So this is not so uncommon.
People are found that they
are functioning absolutely
normally, but they mostly
have water in the noggin,
not so much gray matter,
not so much brain.
And that is the result
of, in some cases,
meningitis in early stages, and
various viruses that basically
eat your brain
out, and whatever,
or they're born that way.
It's not necessarily clear.
But for sure,
they're functioning
like a normal human being,
and they have, in this case,
like basically--
these keep changing-- his brain
is literally that little bump
in the middle there.
It's somewhat less than
10% of the whole thing.
So, you know, this is telling
you something about water
that's very important, is that
the information transfer is
through the water molecule.
Since life emerged
out of water, I
would tend to say that
water comes first.
And then I want to give
you an idea of scale
as well, because
people think about DNA,
and they think of this little
strand that they all get shown,
this little pairs of protein
that makes up the DNA
strand, that most
people get shown,
they don't realize that
that's just one sequence,
and there is 2 meters of
that stuff in each nuclei
of every cell, approximately.
So just so you know, because we
have a tendency to think about
biology as this low
kind of Mobius-like,
kind of like an amoeba--
not a Mobius-- but an amoeba
kind of thing that's slow.
Right?
Well, it's not slow.
It's very dynamic.
It's very energetic.
And it's seriously producing
insane amount of energy.
Because if you take all
the DNA in one human being,
you can wrap it around
the world 5 million times.
So it's non-trivial.
You can go from Jupiter
to the sun six times.
You're going back and forth with
the DNA that's inside your body
right now.
It's non-trivial amount
of information exchange.
So we have a
tendency-- and that's
really why some
analogy breaks down,
is that we have a
tendency to break things
in such small pieces and then
try to analyze how they work.
And we miss the global
collective behavior,
which is completely insane.
Imagine DNA from here
to Jupiter six time
exchanging information
in your body,
and then ATP production
through the mitochondria
doing its thing, where each
one is like billions of them
on the surface exchanging,
producing ATP--
I mean, that's like
the life force, ATP.
Like, it's the energy
production of your body.
Well, it does that.
Like, if you wake
up and stay in bed--
just like that, all day, you do
nothing, you just do nothing--
you will produce approximately
your body weight in ATP
during that day.
The little motor
inside the mitochondria
is spinning at
6,000 to 8,000 RPM.
There's a little magnetic
motor in there going [WHINES]
There's billions of those.
They're ripping electrons out.
And from the--
I mean, I'm simplifying.
Johanna is going to kick my
ass if I keep doing that.
But, you know, it's
doing this whole thing.
During that day, instead
of staying in bed
if you go and run
a marathon, you
will produce approximately 1
ton of ATP during that day.
That's what you're going to do.
And so it's non-trivial
energy factory dynamics,
exchange of information.
I just want to--
so imagine it's that high
at a hundred trillion cells
in your body.
Imagine how high it is at
a hundred trillion atoms
in each one of the cells.
And then you start to see,
when you guys integrate this,
you start to see the
light body that you are.
You're literally an
electromagnetic inductor
bio-oscillator
crystal resonating,
and, like, you know
[VOCALIZES] and you're
running at 100 Fahrenheit
for like a hundred years.
And so this dynamic
of organization,
from the Planck field into
the atoms, into the cell,
into the energy transfer,
and all this stuff that's
happening, eventually
creates complexities
that are super high-- very
highly complex systems,
self-supporting systems.
It's like making a liver,
and it's making a heart,
and it's making a brain to try
to coordinate all this stuff.
And it's making nerves
and all kinds of stuff
to communicate across scales,
and making sure everything
is going.
And then it builds this
more, and more, and more,
and more complex system
that gets super complex,
until the complexity
is high enough
that this system reaches
like a threshold where
the feedback structure of
spacetime becomes self-aware.
The feedback goes, I am here.
And the rest of the
universe is over there.
And there lies the possibility
for massive confusion.
Right?
All along the way, you
have perfect organization.
You're doing great.
And everything is highly
coordinated, there's perfect--
I mean, look at nature.
It's not confused.
Nobody else in nature is quite
as confused as the human being.
They're not sitting
there going, should I
get the nectar from this plant?
Should I-- what does it mean
that this flower is yellow?
oh
Like, it's not confused.
It's not saying-- there is
this sense of natural order.
That's there, and it's running.
Fine.
And then you get
to the human being,
and it's utterly confused.
But what really blew my
mind is that, although it's
utterly confused about
the whole experience,
it acts like it knows
what it's doing.
[LAUGHTER]
It's like, wait a minute.
The whole rest of the
universe is looking.
I'd better know what
the heck I'm doing.
This could be embarrassing.
Right?
So that threshold
produced that separation.
From the being all of a sudden
becoming aware of itself--
it looks in the mirror,
and now the feedback
is like, that's me--
from this, it can
assume that there
is no direct relationship
between that feedback
and the rest of the universe.
It can assume that somehow
it's separated from what
was the insertion of
its own existence.
The life force and the flow of
all information that eventually
makes it becomes
something mysterious
that is unclear to
the resulting effect.
This is the effect
of information.
But that effect
is unclear what is
the source of their existence.
Never mind the purpose.
How the heck did I get here?
And that's what really freaked
me out when I was a kid.
You know, it was like--
I mean it literally.
I mean, I used to just sit--
yesterday, I met with a book
publisher owner, [INAUDIBLE]
which is a large publisher
for the French cultures
around the world.
And he's a Quebecker, and
he lived across from me
in Montreal when I was a child.
We didn't know each other,
but he lived literally across
from me.
He knew exactly which
building I was in.
And right beside my
building was a theater.
And I would sit in front--
that was a bench there.
And I would sit in
front of that theater
and see people come out.
And I would observe people.
I would observe how they
act, and how they connect.
And I was classifying.
I was making classifications.
I was looking for patterns.
And I would say this
person is more like this.
And this person,
the way they walk,
the way they talk,
the way they look.
Like, I was looking for
like the fractal branches
of their existence.
And I was thinking, you
know, but I was puzzled.
Like, none of them were thinking
like, how did I get here?
I mean, it wasn't apparent.
Maybe internally
it was happening.
Maybe internally there was
a thing that was going,
what the heck is
happening over here?
But externally, there
was this facade.
And I was like, how
is this possible?
How is this possible
that you get here,
and you're somehow
conscious, and it's like--
and you don't ask
the first question,
like, how did I get here,
and what is this zoo?
But people get in the thing,
because everybody tells them
you've got to do this.
So then they do this.
And then maybe at the
end of their life,
maybe in the last few weeks
or in the last few minutes
for most of them, they
might go, what was all this?
What was I doing?
Right?
And so there, the
boundary, the separation
occurs, at that point where
the system becomes self-aware.
Because the loop closes.
The loop closes on itself.
And so it assumes
that the source
is itself, which is correct.
Except that itself
is the whole thing.
And it doesn't know that.
You see what I'm saying?
Like, it doesn't know
where is the plug,
where is the data coming from.
So then it goes, what
is consciousness?
And hopefully, eventually,
it gets to the idea--
you know, it's writing physics.
And it's doing this,
and it's doing that.
And for a long time
it goes, we don't
need no stinking consciousness.
We can solve this without it.
And then eventually, it
goes, wait, I'm conscious.
And I'm solving these equations.
So I need me to
solve the equation.
So where is me in the equation?
So then maybe that species
eventually goes, OK,
so consciousness has got
to be in there somewhere.
So the plug--
OK, so now--
OK, so-- but you can
get even more confused.
Because when you're
writing these equations,
you might be writing
the equation saying,
oh, I'm going to
make it easier on me.
I'm going to make
this equation easier.
I'm going to assume that this
thing I'm trying to measure
is like me.
It's isolated from the system.
I'm going to assume
that I'm here,
and I've got nothing
to do with that thing.
And it's there, and it
has nothing to do with me
or the rest of the universe.
And I can calculate now
how much energy it burns,
and what it does,
and all this stuff.
And I'm thinking I'm accurate.
But then that civilization
gets better at doing this.
And then when they get really,
really into the details,
and they get down
there in the quantum
world near that field of
information, near where
things kind of like
in the equation
they're going on a little
crazy, because it's really
high intensity energy
and all this stuff--
when they get down there,
they realize whoa, sh-sh-[MUTED]..
When I look at it, it changes.
Right?
I can't isolate it.
I can't put it there and
measure it without changing it.
What the heck?
Right?
Now, you've got this,
uh, it's getting ugly.
Right?
I'm like, I can't put simple
mechanics on it anymore.
It's not working.
So now this society can
do something very strange.
They can, like, start
dropping acid then, you know--
and start thinking, OK, if I
drop enough acid eventually
I might get this.
And then it's like, it
might get into the place--
now I'm talking about you
know which period of time--
that I could maybe
just completely abandon
all mechanical
system and just say,
I'm just going to do statistics.
I'm just going to
assume that it's
all kind of crazy down there.
I'm going to call it
"quantum weirdness."
I'm going to abandon
all mechanical function.
And I'm going to
just say, there's
probabilities that something
may be there or may not.
And in fact, until
there's a measurement,
it's in state of superposition,
so it could be anything.
Right?
It could be the whole universe.
It could be a cat.
It could be alive,
it could be dead.
You've got a big problem now.
Now you've got a big problem.
A big problem.
Because if you're not
thinking too much--
which, you know, if
you drop a lot of acid,
it's hard to think
the next day--
you can end up
thinking that when
you do this statistical
approach, when
you open a cat box--
the cat in the box,
Schrodinger's cat--
when you open the cat
box, it's alive and dead
at the same time.
It's in state of
superposition in there.
But it is your observation,
your measurement,
that determines its state.
And doing that, you've
closed the system again.
It's you or the
measurement and the cat.
I just want to make clear
that this doesn't say anything
about consciousness
in standard physics.
And this is a big error
that spiritual people
do all the time.
They associate this
equation with proof
that consciousness has
something to do with physics.
The physicists will
disagree with that,
because the equations don't say
anything about consciousness.
They just say a
measurement is taken.
It could be a robot.
It could be-- you
don't need a person.
But this is a very, very
important conundrum.
It's really hard to--
I'm trying to describe it to
you so it doesn't confuse you.
I hope you can follow me.
But what I'm saying there
is that at that moment,
you've just close the
loop, and you've, again,
isolated the system.
Because guess what?
The cat in the box
is not isolated
from the rest of the universe.
The fact that you're confused
about the state of the cat
doesn't mean that the
rest of the universe
is confused as well.
Right?
This fact that you don't know
if the cat is alive or dead
is really, in some
ways, irrelevant
to the rest of the universe.
It's not because it's in the box
that the universe doesn't know
what's happening with the cat.
Another way of saying
it is that you can't
isolate the frame of reference.
This is a fractional problem.
What about the flea on the cat?
The flea has its own
experience of the cat.
And it knows if
it's alive or dead.
It's on the cat.
If the blood doesn't
come out anymore
when it's sucking
on it, guess what?
It's dead.
And the flea goes.
What about the microbes?
You see?
Which frame are you using?
There's an infinite
amount of frames.
So you still can't
get those right.
Are you guys running out of ATP?
Are we doing good?
Thanks.
Yes, very good.
But so basically, now
you've got to go, OK,
so it's got to be different.
It's got to be different.
And what's different?
So why is it that--
so what do you do then?
So what do you do then?
So you've got to backtrack.
You've got to go,
wait, wait, wait.
Maybe I missed
something along the way
in which I can start to describe
the relationship of things
relative to each other.
Since I can't isolate
them, maybe it's
the exchange of everything
in every point that
produces the energy
effect of that point.
Maybe it's all connected.
So now I can start to look at
my experiments a little bit
differently.
Maybe there's a
field of information
connecting everything that
I didn't know was there.
Maybe I became
self-aware, because I'm
part of a field of
information that's feeding.
Now I've got, oh,
there's the plug.
I'm plugged into a field.
And that field is the exchange
of all things informing
all other things.
And so you look for that.
And if you look--
and that's what I did.
When you get to the fundamental
particle, the one that
seems to be the most
stable, the one that
seems to be at the heart of
what you call the material
world that makes up you,
the proton, which is a mass,
the mass of atoms, you go, OK.
So if that's true,
that little guy
must have evidence of being
in touch with the whole thing.
This little guy must be like
the throughput of the data
streaming across the
nodes of the universe.
So then you look into it--
and I did.
And when I did, I found
the mass of the universe.
All the little Plancks
inside one proton
equals the mass of the universe.
Each bit of information
that makes up
all the rest of the universe
are present in the field
of information
within one proton.
>> [INAUDIBLE] holographic.
>> It is.
It's holographic.
It's remarkable.
Absolutely.
And the reason why I'm
not measuring the mass
of the proton when I measure--
the reason why I'm not measuring
the mass of the universe
when I measure the
mass of the proton
is because I'm only
measuring one node.
Right?
So that node can
only emit what's
able to come out of
its little surface.
But in the center,
in the volume,
is the shared volume of
all the other protons,
because they're all connected
through little Planck
wormholes.
So the whole thing is connected.
And it's like mycelium.
It's like neurons.
It's like growing.
Maybe if they'd dropped more
mushrooms and less acid,
they would have
gotten there earlier.
Just kidding.
Go ahead.
>> Nassim, you refer
to Michael [INAUDIBLE]..
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, he said the ancients
knew this, what you just said.
He said the ancients knew it.
>> Yeah.
It's in all ancient--
it's in most ancient
civilization.
They called the
field different ways.
They had mana.
They had-- what's another one--
chi-- I'm sorry?
>> Prana.
>> Prana, chi, all kinds of
different ways of calling
the field.
And they describe that field
as a field of information.
They even said it had structure.
Then they had symbols to show
the structure of the field.
And then they had--
they were describing
very similar things
that I'm describing right now.
Yeah, they knew this stuff.
>> What does the--
>> Why wouldn't they know that?
Why wouldn't they notice?
This is how you're made.
It should come out.
If it's true, you should be
able to look back in history
and see it emerge.
You should see it emerge.
From the highest thinkers
on the planet, the highest
teachers on the planet,
you should see it.
You should start to
see the commonality.
If you put all these great
teachers in history together,
you should--
because if that's
the way we're made,
the information should come out.
Yeah.
And so just by doing an
analysis of ancient history,
you should find the
thread that would tell you
the physics of the universe.
And that is what I did.
I studied ancient civilizations
in parallel to physics
so that I could get the
clues along the way.
And I started to
decode these symbols,
and I found the
geometry emerging.
And then eventually,
I wrote the equations
that confirmed that that
was the correct geometry.
And that's when it
all came out right.
But that took me
30 years, right?
So I think that's
really confirming.
That's really confirming.
And there is another
variant to that.
That is, all these ancient
civilizations said,
we didn't come up
with this stuff.
We got it from the sun gods
that came from the stars.
Yeah.
>> Don't see any
evidence in that.
>> Yeah, the Hawaiians,
the Vedics, the Egyptians,
the Mayans, the Incans, they
all talk about people that came
from the sky, from the stars,
and came and taught them all
this stuff.
So maybe it wasn't just
them tuning into the field
and getting it, but as well they
got it from external sources.
Go ahead.
>> The field of creation is more
than just the field of creation
of this universe.
In fact, more than the field
of creation of this nature.
This nature or this
universe exists.
It's one of many
possible natures
that might exist in creation.
As a result of that, all
that we've been able to find,
all the descriptions
that you have given
to us in the last two hours--
>> Hour and a half.
OK, 90 minutes.
It seemed like two hours to me.
>> I'm sorry.
>> It's a lot of information.
>> I know.
It's compact.
>> But nonetheless, what I'm
trying to get at is that this
nature is playing a role
in creation vis a vis other
natures.
And as a result, it had to
produce the kind of entity
that you call the human that
goes through that system
and evolution, that has to
ask the question, who am I?
And so that has a purpose.
>> Oh, absolutely.
>> And we need to find and
understand that purpose
in relation to the
bigger picture--
the picture of the
whole of creation.
What kind of role
this nature, that we
are so fond of
finding out about it,
plays in the whole scheme
of things, whatever that is.
>> OK.
Yeah, we do.
And I'm going to
suggest that that's
both individual and global.
But that-- yeah.
So first of all, this theory
I've been talking about
predicts that there
is an infinite amount
of universe foaming out,
continuously universes
being created.
And when they are created,
they're entangled.
Because they're still
in the field of creation
that you're talking about.
So they're still connected
through this field.
So they're still entangled
across all scales.
So all natures influence
all natures, every point.
Every point is influenced
by every other point.
So it's a universal or
multiversal evolution
that doesn't necessarily
know what is the--
have an endpoint in mind.
Because that's a concept of
man, that there's a start
and there is a beginning.
From this, this took me
a while to integrate.
The rest was easy.
[LAUGHTER]
This was the hardest part.
OK.
When I came to the
part of the equation
where I couldn't
come up with anything
that would make me say,
this was a start here,
and then end is going
to be over here--
I could not find anything
anywhere, in all of the physics
or all of the philosophy
of those physics, where
I can say for sure there's
going to be a start and an end.
And it just took me back so far.
Like, I kept on traveling
through all the scales,
and I could not find
an end or a beginning.
And I thought I was
going to lose my mind.
Which had already happened.
So I was all good, I
just didn't realize it.
But I could not
continue doing physics.
It took me, I think, two and
a half weeks or three weeks
before I could get back to it.
I literally had to put
everything down and try
to integrate that--
try to integrate letting go
of a beginning or an end goal.
Like, letting go of--
and I just-- it
took a long time.
There was some kind
of fear attached
to the idea of
letting go of that.
Because it felt like I
was if I was going to let
go, that I was in freefall,
that I was going to disappear.
>> You'd discover the eternity--
no beginning, and no end.
>> No end, right.
And so I-- yeah.
But eternity doesn't mean
that there is no quantization,
that there's no process,
that there's no definition.
It just means that there's
continuous, infinite amount
of definitions.
This is an error that as
well is done in physics,
is the idea that if you have
infinity you lose structure.
That's not necessarily true.
You can have an infinite
amount of structure.
Right?
So that I had to--
I mean, I spent two and
a half weeks climbing.
You know, I climbed
every morning,
I climbed every night anyway.
But, you know, I would just sit
on the rocks in the mountains
and try to integrate letting
go of a beginning and an end,
which was terrifying.
But when I did, when I got
there, when I was OK to let
go, and I completely surrendered
to the continuum of creation,
that it's actually the
most beautiful thing--
because it means that there
is continuous learning,
that it can never reach a point
where it stops learning, where
there is no more and learning
possibility, where all is known
and then the universe goes--
I'm out of luck.
It meant, as well, that
the idea that you're
creating your reality
is only a variable
in the whole of the
information transfer,
meaning that you are feeding
the whole information,
and the whole is
feeding you back
your reality modified by
all the other variables,
so that you will never, ever,
ever, ever, ever, ever, ever
get exactly what you intended.
Exactly.
I mean it precisely, exactly.
Because if you
did, it would end.
And then the universe would end.
If any point, at any
place in all multiverses
actually resolved all
nature in all universes,
the universe would end.
So it's sad-- so that the
learning would always occur,
you would always be surprised by
what the universe is offering.
Right?
You would always have this.
And so this had some
fundamental nature in me,
as well, that anything
that's thrown at me--
and I'm still not good at this,
not anywhere close to good
at it, but I know it--
that anything
that's thrown at me
somewhere has its
learning purpose.
Like, I can learn from this.
Because if I actually
was able to create
exactly what I wanted--
exactly, at any point--
then I would be bored
for the rest of eternity
from that point on.
If you can create
exactly what you want.
>> Could you imagine a nature
where everything is eternal.
A being in that nature
would know everything,
because in eternity, you
get to know everything.
So it comes out that
then that is a static--
>> A static universe, yeah.
>> Nothing ever happens,
nothing ever moves.
>> It's really boring.
>> Because-- but we don't
know what else could be done
in eternity.
We don't know that--
>> That's right.
So it has that gradient.
It has that differential
to infinity.
But if that is
connected at all points,
that means that, within
you, you have that capacity.
You have that knowledge.
Within you, within
each one of your atoms,
is all of the information
of every state of universes
across universes in
every Planck second.
You don't know what is going to
be in the next Planck second.
And this is why when people
talk about enlightenment,
I tell them, you know what?
Enlightenment is a process.
It's never a destination.
Because in every moment,
you have the opportunity
to be enlightened.
That is, in every moment,
you have the opportunity
to be connected to the
whole and see it all.
The next moment, the guy on
the highway just cut you off,
and now you're giving
him the finger, right?
[LAUGHTER]
You know what happens?
It's hard.
To be enlightened in
every Planck second
is really, then, hard.
You've got to keep at it.
You've got to keep--
right?
So it's a process.
Because the universe is
changing in every Planck second,
you've got to keep up.
You've got to stay with it.
Go ahead.
>> The antenna [INAUDIBLE]
>> Where does the
antenna play in this?
Oh, I got far away
from my title.
Sorry.
Well, the antenna is an analogy.
But basically, think
of all these processes
through the Planck field, into
the atom, into the molecules,
into the biology, producing
this structure that you are.
Think of it as like a conduit
that's oscillating a system.
You clearly oscillating.
Like for instance,
you have a heartbeat.
You have lungs going like this.
And then there's the spinal
fluid going up and down
your spine that's making your
skull go wider and less wide--
that's pumping your skull.
And you've got all these.
Like, you've got all the blood
going through how many miles
of blood vessels?
And this is in kilometers?
No?
It's a lot.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> 6,000 miles?
>> 60,000.
60,000 miles.
Right.
60,000-- that's way more than
what you drive in a year,
right?
And it's pumping through
your whole system right now.
60,000 miles is pumping,
out of that little pump
the size of your fist.
It's pretty good.
>> 100,000 for
adults [INAUDIBLE]
>> 100,000 for adults?
OK.
Wow, serious?
And I know some giants.
I guarantee you they've
got more miles in there.
Some of those
basketball players?
They've got to have a few
more miles than the average.
But, you know, so imagine that
whole bio-oscillating field
that you are.
It's complex.
You can think of it
as like an antenna
in the structure of spacetime
picking up information.
Like your eyes,
for instance, has
like a black spot in the middle,
like a little black hole.
And guess what?
Electromagnetic fields,
photons, get sucked in there.
They go in.
And then they fly in,
and then the information
is transferred into your
brain, and all this stuff.
So basically, it's
not like an antenna--
now, when people
think of an antenna,
they typically only
think of a receiver.
I'm talking about a transceiver.
So it transmits and receives.
So it's not just like you
are receiving information
from the field.
You're transmitting information
from the field as well.
So when you receive
the information,
you interpret the information,
and then the field
reacts to your interpretation.
So it's feeding you creation
as you interpret the creation.
But it's coordinated creation.
That is, the creation
it's feeding you,
it's not like you can
say, s you know what?
This creation here is not
really what I want it to be.
So I'm going to make
it a pink elephant.
So I'm going to think that
this chair is a pink elephant.
And then, poof, it
becomes a pink elephant.
Because you fed that to
the field, and the field
is responding to you.
Uh-uh.
It's not that easy.
Because if it was that
easy, as I was saying,
you'd get bored really quick.
You'd make everything the
way you want it and be over.
And the rest of the universe
would be a lot like-- you know.
But it's because I've got this
idea of what this chair is,
and she does, and he
does, and all this,
and we all participate
in what this chair is.
So it's kind of solid it's
not going to budge much
if you decide it's
a pink elephant.
But if I got enough
of the field,
if I got enough of the
people in all of the world,
in all of the universe
and everything,
to say this is a pink
elephant, to think
this is a pink elephant, it
might pop into a pink elephant.
But I would have to
convince a lot of people.
Because I've got to overcome all
the information that this chair
is-- and that's a lot--
in all of the universes,
so that it can pop.
But I can change things that
are easier for me to change.
I can change the way I react
when something happens to me.
I can change the
way I interpret--
so when I'm getting--
I'm the antenna.
I'm the transceiver.
So when I'm getting
information, I can say,
well, you know, I'm not going
to react to this this way.
I'm going to react
to this this way.
Because it's not
just your thoughts
that is the information
you're transmitting.
In fact, it is your emotions.
So now I'm going to backtrack to
something I was saying earlier.
I'm going to
backtrack to the part
where I said I'm
reversing biology.
And I'm telling you
that actually, it's
the field of information
that's driving the chemistry,
not the chemistry just happening
to bump together and make
the right chemistry.
Now, what happens
in your chemistry?
How do you change
your chemistry?
So like, if you're
a transceiver, that
means that somehow,
there is a dialing,
there's a dial somewhere,
that you can tune the antenna,
so that it oscillates
at this frequency,
or it oscillates
or at this frequency.
You're tuning into different
radio stations, right?
So there's radio stations where
you have really, you know,
not so harmonic music.
And then you have radio stations
where it's like, [VOCALIZING]
like angel kind of thing.
That was not so good.
But you know, I do physics.
I need somebody
else for that part.
But this-- so how do
you tune that puppy?
Well, you find that
your biorhythms--
like your breathing, your
heart, your spinal cord fluid--
all that changes with what?
>> Emotions.
>> Your state of emotions.
That's right.
So that's the dial.
Right?
How you interpret things,
and your state of emotion,
is going to define what
your antenna is tuning to.
It's going to tune in to this
radio station or this radio
station.
And then the dial,
when it's tuned
in a certain way through
your state of emotions--
because we know
that's what's driving.
When you change your emotion,
we see the chemistry changing.
Now remember, the chemistry
is not changing because--
and this is a big problem in
psychiatry, where they think,
oh, we'll change the
chemistry, and we'll be good.
That doesn't work.
Why doesn't it work?
Because you're changing
the result, not the cause.
So you take the chemistry
away, and you've
got the same problem.
So when you change
the chemistry, when
you change the state of emotion,
you know the chemistry changed.
But that's the
result. So how do you
change that state of emotion?
You change the state of emotion
by interpreting the world
differently.
So, you know, you are in
situations where you can say,
OK, now I'm going to
fly off the handle.
I do that all the time.
It's not pretty.
Ask my staff.
It makes a big mess--
and sometimes necessary.
Or you can make the--
you can interpret the
field a little different,
and then say, OK, I'm going
to approach this differently.
I'm going to have the state
of emotion go this way.
10 minutes left?
Really?
Whoa.
What happened to the
last hour and 10 minutes?
So, I mean, this is why my
talks were 13 hours a while ago.
But we were going to do some
experiment with the crystals.
You guys still want to do that?
We have 10 minutes.
So we're going to
take one of those.
How many people are in here?
We probably have-- uh-oh.
I'm getting the
look from Andrea.
I know that look.
What are you making me do?
We can go a little
long, can't we?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Yeah.
OK.
So basically, all this
is to tell you that--
[LAUGHTER]
--that you can tap into
a field of information.
Johanna?
>> I want to add something, too.
>> OK.
The mic?
Thank you.
Here you go, Johanna.
>> So like Nassim said, it's
all kind of a nested thing.
The universe and the
teeny, teeny little things
are kind of nested
into each other and--
>> Like Russian dolls.
>> Yeah, like Russian dolls.
And without body,
it's kind of the same.
The major magnetic
spinning field we have
is the field of our heart.
So it's a kind of
circulating current
inducing a magnetic
field, which is
kind of called the aura maybe.
And then you have
the cells which
have their own magnetic field.
And then the little plug thing.
And you have the brain, which
has its own magnetic field.
But it's kind of a subfield
in the whole field.
And if you grow a
child, you grow it
inside of your own
magnetic field,
but it will become a
separate field of its own.
>> And it comes out of a
black hole, by the way.
>> Yeah.
Actually, it's
getting stabilized
in its morphogenetic development
by developing the heartbeat.
So for me, the
heartbeat is the key.
And the emotions tied to it.
Because if you're in
a stressful moment,
then you can't bring the
heart into a coherent state.
And you need the heart in
a coherent beating state
to kind of influence
your brain to go itself
into a coherent state and then
kind of let go of everything.
That's what meditation is
about, to not influence it
by all these questions we have,
but let the universe speak
to all of what we
call "unconscious,"
but what may be
the conscious part.
And it's running all of it.
And it's actually
shown that intuition
works through the heart, and
the heart perceives the future.
And it's the key if the
heart is able to translate it
to the translator, the brain.
So that would be my take
on what's the antenna.
>> And this is from
a heart surgeon.
[APPLAUSE]
That's great.
So I was hoping we would
have more time for this,
but I went a little long.
So I wanted to have you guys--
I don't know if we're
going to pull this off.
Maybe you guys will have to
do an experimental thing.
Well, we could try.
We can try?
You're keen for it?
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
So we'll take one
of those apart.
OK, go for it.
She's the fastest ever.
These were--
>> [INAUDIBLE] make
them in groups of eight.
>> No, I was going to give one
to each other, to everybody.
Yeah.
So we'll start
distributing them.
So we have 64 of those.
I think we probably
have the same amount--
yeah.
You want to distribute them?
They all have to come back.
OK?
These were in Egypt in
the pyramids of Egypt.
And they are very sacred to me.
Horribly, during this
expo we had a group
of crystals that disappeared.
Yeah.
It's terrible.
Well, I guess somebody
needed them more than I did.
So I'm glad they have them.
I wish they would have asked me.
[LAUGHTER]
There we go.
Tiding yeah.
We need more?
>> No, they're planning
[INAUDIBLE] meditation,
and then I can come up
and put it together with
your intention.
>> Put them together?
>> And then when
we do meditation,
they're all using it.
And then they can come up in
groups of four to make a four.
And then the next four
can go, and make an eight.
>> OK.
And put them back together?
So if you look on the
little crystal, everybody,
you will see there's a little
arrow on one of the apex.
The little arrow goes on top.
Now I want you to put it
in your left hand, OK?
And I want you to put
it in your left hand.
And then I want you
to take your finger,
your index finger
on the other hand,
and move it around in your
left hand, just a little bit.
Try to put it in the middle,
in the middle of your hand,
in the middle of your palm,
closest to the middle.
And then move it around until--
be aware of what it's doing--
until you feel it start buzzing,
like where it buzzes the most.
Can you guys feel that?
At one point, it starts going
[HUMS] [BEEP] You feel that?
You guys get it?
>> Yes.
>> Mine is defective.
>> No, no, no.
Here, let me put it--
there we go.
OK.
You're not going to hear it,
but you're going to feel it.
OK?
Don't put your finger on top.
And then I want you
to put your hand
on the crystal of your neighbor,
your other hand that's free.
There you go.
And link your row.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> There you go.
Go to the end of the row.
Does that work?
There you go.
>> Nassim, are we
touching or nothing?
>> No, not touching.
Just a little bit above.
Do you guys feel that?
If you put your hand over
the ones of your neighbor,
just a little bit
above, eventually you
should start to
feel a little dot
in your hand that doesn't have
a crystal going into your hand.
You feel that?
See how it's getting stronger?
That is your energy
center starting
to feel the flow of the vacuum
in that region of space.
You're actually
feeling the structure
of space, the
information of space,
flowing through your body.
You guys feel that?
>> It's strong.
>> It's strong, huh?
If it's weak, it's
going to get stronger.
It takes a little time.
And then after you've done
that, then do it to yourself.
Bring your hand back over
yourself without touching it.
You can move your
hand a little bit so
that you find a spot on the
top hand where it buzzes,
where it--
>> It actually hurts.
>> Yeah.
It can hurt a little bit.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah.
Because there's so
much information flow.
And what you're actually
feeling is the change
in the molecule the
structure of the water
in your body as the
information flows through it.
These little crystals are
little amplifiers of information
in that region of space.
They make a little vortex
of the Planck field.
It's called a
gravitational vortex,
or a gravitational laser.
You feel it?
Yeah.
And you can-- when the flow
is going on into your hand,
you can direct that flow through
your arm, and up your arm,
and then across and back
into your other hand,
and back across.
You can close the loop.
And then it will start
to amplify even more.
And as it goes
across your chest,
you can direct it down to your
heart, and into your liver,
and then to your organs, and
down into your pubic bones,
and down into your
leg, into your toes.
And you might find that
there's regions in your body
where it doesn't
circulate so well.
You feel it circulating
everywhere else,
but there's places where
you can't feel it circulate.
You can direct it there.
You can think about--
remember, this is
information in the field.
So since your consciousness
is information in the field,
you can direct where
the information goes.
You guys feel that?
Can you feel your chakra lining
up, like your crown chakra,
and everything's
starting to open up?
And so this is little technology
I invented like in 1999.
I'm starting to finally
put it on the market.
But this is the baby step.
This is a technology
that will run
the spaceship, and your
house, and your car very soon.
But this is just like
an experiential thing
you're actually feeling.
Right?
You guys see what I mean?
Now, you can actually-- and
it's powerful, because it can--
I mean, the plants that are
exposed to this little crystal
grow 400, 450% faster than
the plants that are not.
>> Do they have to be
close to it, or in it?
>> You can just get the
water to pass over it,
and then use the water
to water your plants.
Because it's changing
the water structure.
It's structuring the
water in your body.
>> The water speed.
>> I'm sorry?
>> The speed.
It can go fast, slow--
>> The spin?
>> No.
How is the speed that
goes the water on top?
>> It can go very fast.
And it will structure.
>> Isn't that what Dr. Emoto
said you do, just by praying?
>> Yes.
Except that this is
amplifying your prayer,
so that the plants are growing
way faster than if you just
prayed over your water.
OK?
Go ahead.
>> Regular crystals
you have to recharge.
Do you have to recharge these?
>> No.
Those will stay
charged for eternity--
I mean, for eternity--
for a very long time.
Because spacetime
is a superfluid.
And the way I
create this crystal,
it's producing this
superfluid dynamics.
But if you boil it,
then you will lose it,
because you will
de-structure the crystal.
So you can't boil it.
You can take a bath with it.
You can bring in a hot tub.
It's fine.
Just don't boil it.
>> You can see the wise oath,
its pivitol to meditate with
certain gems.
>> Right.
It's the more advanced version.
Like, it's the
evolution of humanity.
Eventually, the crystal thing
is not just some crystal
you found in Arkansas.
But it's actually like a
very advanced technology.
Right?
>> Certain stones have
influence on your body.
>> Yeah, that's right.
And so if you wear
it, it's very good.
Is it getting stronger
in there on your hand?
OK.
So now take your other hand off.
I want you to close your
finger, the long one, over it.
But I don't want you to
touch the top of the crystal.
I just want to put
your end of your finger
on top of the crystal.
And so don't touch it.
Just bring that finger--
it's like a mudra,
a little mudra.
You just bring your
finger close to the top,
right over top of it.
And eventually, you should
start to feel the little buzz
on the end of your finger
that's over top of it.
Do you guys feel that?
>> Yes.
>> OK.
Then I want you to extend your
finger, your other finger,
your index finger, out.
Like this.
This is called a mudra.
Right?
And then I want you to
go to your neighbor.
And I want you to
bring your index--
one of you on your
neighbor-- no, no.
Bring your index-- or
you can do it that way--
close to their skin but
without touching them.
And see if-- or the other palm,
or yeah, or the two fingers.
Just bring it close to them,
and see if they can feel it.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> And then move your
finger along their skin,
and see if they can feel the
beam going along their skin.
Can you guys feel that?
Right.
You can do it anywhere
on their skin, and just--
it's going to take a moment
for the energy to harmonize.
And then when the
link is done, when
you move you should be able to
feel the little laser moving
along the skin.
You've got to move really slow.
You feel that?
Isn't that cool?
So when somebody gets hurt
or gets a cut or something,
you can actually help them--
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah, you can
feel the heat, yeah.
And you can help them.
You can help close the wound.
You can help them--
>> Heal.
>> Yeah, heal.
Do you feel it?
>> Nassim, does this have
anything to do with scalar
waves?
>> Scalar components
of the field, yeah.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
it's like a vortex in the
field that's coming out
of the end of your finger.
So it's really, you
know, just a little bit
of an amplifier of the field.
And it basically is amplifying
your information transfer
in this region of space.
So this is why I've
put them on the market,
is to be like,
make the antennas,
make the transmission
a little stronger,
so you can exchange
more information,
and you can have
more of coherency
through your water
structures in your body,
so that you have a larger
influence on the field.
>> Put it at the heart.
>> Yeah.
And that's why we
have it on a pendant,
so that you can wear
it over your heart.
And the pendant has
an adjustable thingy
that you can push on it,
and you can make it longer,
make it shorter.
So you can adjust it just right.
It can be higher on
your throat chakra.
It can be on your heart.
Then you can put it on
your third eye, and so on.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Yes.
Yes.
All of the healing
works this way.
>> [INAUDIBLE] meditation,
and then they can break off
in pairs.
>> Right.
We'll just bring them here,
and we'll put them together.
OK.
So just to finish, we're going
to do a little meditation
with it.
You guys want to do that?
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
So we do this quick.
Five minutes?
OK.
So with the crystal
in your hand,
find that spot by
pushing it around.
And it's really good.
And we're going to
take deep breaths.
We can have one hand over
top the other to feel it.
And when we tune into it,
we take three big breaths.
[BREATHING DEEPLY]
And as the oxygen circulates
through our bloodstream,
and into the end of our
fingers, and through our hand,
we tune into the
crystal and the feeling
of the crystal in your
hand, and the energy
that it produces in that region.
And we bring that energy
up into our arm going
through the wrist and the elbow,
and any distortion in your arm
gets realigned from the geometry
of the water being structured,
and then the
geometry of the water
being structured up your
elbow into your shoulder,
and up into your neck, and
across towards your heart.
And then it continues
to structure
as it pumps through the heart
into the rest of your body,
then across to the
other shoulder,
and down your arm to your
elbow on the other side,
through your wrist,
and through your hand,
and back to the crystal,
closing the loop.
And as you close
the loop, the energy
becomes stronger
as it circulates.
And as it circulates, it
gets pumped through the heart
as it crosses over from
one arm to the other.
And as it gets pumped
through the heart,
it circulates up and down
through your stomach,
and down towards your pubic
bone, and into your legs
to the extremity of your toes,
and then up through your head,
into your third eye and your
brain, your crown chakra,
and the looping your whole body
with this field of information,
lighting up every
cell in your body.
And from that place of power
and from that place of energy,
we open our eyes and
walk into this world.
You guys feel that?
That was good.
[SHUDDERS] I've got to do
that more often myself.
All right.
So we have to liberate the room.
So we're going to try to do
that in the most graceful way.
>> We're going to pass by
and pick up the crystals from
everyone's hands.
>> Can everyone hold their
crystal so then we know who has
crystals, who has crystals?
>> OK.
So we'll start picking
up the crystals.
Thank you very much.
>> Cheers.
>> Oh.
Thank you so much.
So thank you so much,
everybody, for your time,
and your energy, and
your participation.
You are an antenna participating
in a field of energy,
transmitting and receiving.
And so, you know, until
we see each other again,
may the vacuum be with you.
[LAUGHTER]
Thank you so much, everybody.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]